---
title: "Drawer"
date: 2024-05-29
---
This is a very simple experiment, where I wanted to delve into making intresting things that allowed the user to draw in intresting ways after a class demo.

The class demo has two stages to it, before and after arrays were added. In the before version, a simple drawing program is set up using the mouse pressed and released functions combined with an if statment:
```
function mousePressed(){
  stroke(1)
  noFill()
  ellipse(mouseX,mouseY, 20)
  x=mouseX
  y=mouseY
}

function mouseReleased(){
  stroke(1)
  noFill()
  ellipse(mouseX,mouseY, 20)
  line(x,y,mouseX,mouseY)
}
```
These functions work to create a outline of an ellipse (the first three lines of each). Then in the pressed function it stores the mouseX and mouseY int x and y. This is used in the released function as to create a line from the beggining of the mouse press to the release.

```
if(mouseIsPressed){
    ...
    ellipse(mouseX,mouseY, 20)
```
The above if statment draws ellipses as long as the mouse is pressed. This creates the basic drawer with the added feature of a line being added in between your start and stopping points.


[Base drawer program](/My-coding-portfolio/creativeCode/Drawer/index.html)

This is where we move on to the addition of the arrays.
The first thing that is added is a createGraphics, which is an area that allows us to draw off screen. This is useful as we can translate our co-ordinates here then use them later on.
```
  pg = createGraphics(400,400)
```

Now instead of creating the line upon release on the canvas, we create the line in the offscreen canvas.
```
function mouseReleased(){
  pg.line(x,y,mouseX,mouseY)
```

This final section of code is what makes the drawer really intresting. verts controls the amount of vertices that the shape can have. When it reaches the max number it then takes away from the beggining of the array that holds the stored verticies. 
```
    beginShape()
    verts.forEach(function(vert){
      vertex(vert.x, vert.y)
    })
    
    endShape()
    verts.push({x:mouseX, y: mouseY})
    
    if(verts.length>maxVerts){
      verts.shift()
    }
```

The first part of the experiment, creating an intresting shape that dissapears over time, and my first diversion from the class demo was using createGraphics. There are two versions below, one using createGraphics for a background and the other uses simply a normal background. Notice how in the normal background, you do not get the lines in the background. 

[CreateGraphics](/My-coding-portfolio/creativeCode/Drawer/createGraphics/index.html)

[Background](/My-coding-portfolio/creativeCode/Drawer/background/index.html)

This is the end of my first experiment.


For my next experiment, I wanted to create a drawing experience that would be visually intresting but hard to actually use. This lead me to making three core changes:
```
function mouseReleased(){
  pg.ellipse(x,y, 5)
  
  pg.ellipse(mouseX,mouseY, 5)
}
```
This creates two ellipses, one at the mouses position when it was clicked and another one where it is when the mouse is released.

```
let r = random(100,200)
    let g = random(100,200)
    let b = random(100,200)
    let ellipseColour=color(r, g, b, 100)
```
I also changed it so that the vectors would change colours constantly. But to make sure that they did not get in the way I made sure to add opacity to the background.
```
pg.background(255, 1)
  image(pg, 0, 0)
```
[Try the experiment out!](/My-coding-portfolio/creativeCode/Drawer/Annoying_Experiment/index.html)


For my final experiment, I wanted to add some very basic colour swap as I was already pretty happy with what I had produced from the first drawing idea. This consisted of some very basic if statments that changed the colour based on the frame count.
```
let ellipseColour=color(150, 100, 100, 100)
    if (frameCount > 300){
      ellipseColour=color(153, 255, 153, 100)
    }
    if (frameCount > 600){
      ellipseColour=color(151, 204, 51,100)
    }
    if (frameCount > 900){
      ellipseColour=color(0, 51, 0,100)
    }
    if (frameCount > 1500){
      ellipseColour=color(255, 153, 255,100)
    }
```


[Try the experiment out!](/My-coding-portfolio/_creativeCode/Drawer/colour-change/index.html)


